docs/features/index.md, before:

---
category: features
order: 10
toc: false
feedback-widget: false
---

# Features

<info-box>
	Use the <span class="navigation-hint_desktop">**navigation tree on the left**</span><span class="navigation-hint_mobile">**main menu button in the upper-left corner**</span> to navigate through selected CKEditor 5 features.
</info-box>

## Features availability

Most of the features are included in CKEditor 5 Builds and are available out of the box, like for example {@link features/autoformat Autoformatting} or {@link features/keyboard-support Keyboard support}. However, some of the presented features need to be manually included in a customized CKEditor build, for example the {@link features/markdown Markdown processor} which outputs Markdown instead of HTML.

## Looking for more?

The examples on the left do not present all features included in CKEditor 5. For example some end-user features like bulleted and numbered lists are quite self-explanatory.

Please bear in mind that the stable version of CKEditor 5 has not been officially released yet and with time more features will be added to CKEditor 5. If you are missing anything particular, feel free to [suggest a new feature](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues) and share your feedback with us. If it has already been reported by someone else, upvote it to show your support.

## How about creating your own features?

Probably the most exciting features are the ones you can develop on top of CKEditor 5 Framework!
We are slowly enhancing the {@link framework/index CKEditor 5 Framework documentation} together with {@link api/index API documentation}, hoping to give you a solid base for {@link framework/guides/creating-simple-plugin creating custom features}.

The official add-ons repository for CKEditor 4 reached an impressive number of over 300 add-ons created and published by the community. Now it is time for you to add your contributions to the brand new CKEditor 5!

Commit message:

Docs: Updated the main Features page. Fixes #5627.

docs/features/index.md, after:

---
category: features
order: 10
toc: false
feedback-widget: false
---

# Features

<info-box>
	Use the <span class="navigation-hint_desktop">**navigation tree on the left**</span><span class="navigation-hint_mobile">**main menu button in the upper-left corner**</span> to navigate through selected CKEditor 5 features.
</info-box>

## Feature availability

The number of features available for CKEditor 5 is constantly growing. Plenty of them are included by default in CKEditor 5 Builds and are available out-of-the-box, like for example {@link features/autoformat autoformatting} or {@link features/keyboard-support keyboard support}. However, some of the presented features need to be manually included in a customized CKEditor 5 build, for example the {@link features/markdown Markdown processor} which outputs Markdown instead of HTML.

## Feature examples

Each rich-text editor feature is presented on a separate page, with one or more working demos showcasing a feature along with some customization ideas that you can use in your implementation.

<info-box>
	**In most demos the number of features enabled is limited** to make the currently highlighted piece of functionality stand out more. However, in your CKEditor 5 WYSIWYG editor implementation you are free to choose and combine any features you like from those available.
</info-box> 

## Looking for more?

The examples on the left do not present all features included in CKEditor 5. For example, some end-user features like bulleted and numbered lists or undo and redo are quite self-explanatory.

CKEditor 5 is in active development now and new features are added all the time, while the existing ones are being expanded and improved. If you are missing anything in particular, feel free to [suggest a new feature](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues/new?labels=type%3Afeature&template=2-feature-request.md) and share your feedback with us. If it has already been reported by someone else, upvote it 👍 to show your support.

## How about creating your own features?

Probably the most exciting features are the ones you can develop on top of CKEditor 5 Framework!
We are gradually enhancing the {@link framework/index CKEditor 5 Framework documentation} together with {@link api/index API documentation}, hoping to give you a solid base for {@link framework/guides/creating-simple-plugin creating custom features}.

The official add-ons repository for CKEditor 4 reached an impressive number of over 300 add-ons created and published by the community. Now it is time for you to add your contributions to the brand new CKEditor 5!
