docs/builds/guides/frameworks/angular.md, before:

---
menu-title: Angular component
category: builds-integration-frameworks
order: 20
---

# Rich text editor component for Angular

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40ckeditor%2Fckeditor5-angular.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular)

CKEditor 5 consists of {@link builds/guides/overview ready-to-use editor builds} and {@link framework/guides/overview CKEditor 5 Framework} upon which the builds are based.

Currently, the CKEditor 5 component for Angular supports integrating CKEditor 5 only via builds. Integrating {@link builds/guides/integration/advanced-setup#scenario-2-building-from-source CKEditor 5 built from source} is not possible yet due to the lack of ability to [adjust webpack configuration in `angular-cli`](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/issues/10618).

<info-box>
	While there is no support to integrate CKEditor 5 from source yet, you can still {@link builds/guides/development/custom-builds create a custom build of CKEditor 5} and include it in your Angular application.
</info-box>

## Quick start

In your existing Angular project, install the [CKEditor 5 WYSIWYG editor component for Angular](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular):

```bash
npm install --save @ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular
```

Install one of the {@link builds/guides/overview#available-builds official editor builds} or [create a custom one](#using-a-custom-ckeditor-5-build).

Assuming that you picked [`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic):

```bash
npm install --save @ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic
```

Now, add `CKEditorModule` to modules whose components will be using the `<ckeditor>` component in their templates.

```ts
import { CKEditorModule } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular';

@NgModule( {
	imports: [
		CKEditorModule,
		// ...
	],
	// ...
} )
```

Import the editor build in your Angular component and assign it to a `public` property to make it accessible from the template:

```ts
import * as ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = ClassicEditor;
	// ...
}
```

Finally, use the `<ckeditor>` tag in the template to run the rich text editor:

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor" data="<p>Hello, world!</p>"></ckeditor>
```

Rebuild your application and CKEditor 5 should greet you with "Hello, world!".

### Using the Document editor build

If you want to use the {@link framework/guides/document-editor document editor build}, you need to {@link module:editor-decoupled/decouplededitor~DecoupledEditor.create add the toolbar to the DOM manually}.

```ts
import * as DecoupledEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-decoupled-document';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = DecoupledEditor;

	public onReady( editor ) {
		editor.ui.getEditableElement().parentElement.insertBefore(
			editor.ui.view.toolbar.element,
			editor.ui.getEditableElement()
		);
	}
}
```

And then, in the template:

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor" data="<p>Hello, world!</p>" (ready)="onReady($event)"></ckeditor>
```

### Using a custom CKEditor 5 build

If you want to add more plugins to the existing build or customize something that cannot be controlled with the {@link builds/guides/integration/configuration editor configuration} you should create a custom build first, using the {@link builds/guides/development/custom-builds create a custom build guide}.

You should finish the above tutorial with the generated `ckeditor.js` file (and corresponding translation files). In the next step you should copy it to the `src` directory and import it to the component file.

```ts
import * as Editor from 'path/to/the/ckeditor';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = Editor;
	// ...
}
```

Note that to allow importing JavaScript files without providing their corresponding types you need to set `allowJs` to `true` in the `tsconfig.json` file. Also, make sure that you target `ES6` or higher, otherwise you are likely to end up with [a weird transpilation error](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular/issues/20) in the production build.

```json
"compilerOptions": {
	"allowJs": true,
	"target": "es2015"
	// other options
}
```

<info-box>
	If you cannot set the target higher than `es5`, try to set `"buildOptimizer": false` which will produce a bigger, but correct production build.
</info-box>

### Using the editor with collaboration plugins

The easiest way to integrate [collaboration plugins](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/collaboration/collaboration.html) in an Angular application is to create a custom build first and later import it from the Angular application &mdash; see [Using a custom CKEditor 5 build](#using-a-custom-ckeditor-5-build).

For such scenario we provide a few ready-to-use integrations featuring collaborative editing in Angular applications:

- [CKEditor 5 with real-time collaboration features](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-collaboration-samples/tree/master/real-time-collaboration-for-angular)

- [CKEditor 5 with the track changes feature](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-collaboration-samples/tree/master/track-changes-for-angular)

It is not mandatory to build applications on top of the above samples, however, they should help you get started.

### Strict mode project tips

If you have the strict mode set in your project, you need to specify types for CKEditor 5 packages. Otherwise you will get the `Could not find a declaration file for module` error.

To fix that you need to create a TypeScript declaration file and declare modules that miss their types:

```ts
// typings.d.ts

// You should specify the CKEditor 5 build you use here:
declare module '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic' {
	const ClassicEditorBuild: any;

	export = ClassicEditorBuild;
}
```

Unfortunately, CKEditor 5 builds do not ship with corresponding TypeScript typings yet. If you are interested in this topic you can add your vote or a comment [here](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues/504).

## Integration with `ngModel`

The component implements the [`ControlValueAccessor`](https://angular.io/api/forms/ControlValueAccessor) interface and works with the `ngModel`. Here is how to use it:

1. Create some model in your component to share with the editor:

	```ts
	@Component( {
		// ...
	} )
	export class MyComponent {
		public model = {
			editorData: '<p>Hello, world!</p>'
		};
		// ...
	}
	```

2. Use the model in the template to enable a two–way data binding:

	```html
	<ckeditor [(ngModel)]="model.editorData" [editor]="Editor"></ckeditor>
	```

## Supported `@Input` properties

The following `@Input` properties are supported by the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular:

### `editor` (required)

The {@link builds/guides/integration/basic-api `Editor`} which provides the static {@link module:core/editor/editor~Editor.create `create()`} method to create an instance of the editor:

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor"></ckeditor>
```

### `config`

The {@link module:core/editor/editorconfig~EditorConfig configuration} of the editor:

```html
<ckeditor [config]="{ toolbar: [ 'heading', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ] }" ...></ckeditor>
```

### `data`

The initial data of the editor. It can be a static value:

```html
<ckeditor data="<p>Hello, world!</p>" ...></ckeditor>
```

or a shared parent component's property

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public editorData = '<p>Hello, world!</p>';
	// ...
}
```

```html
<ckeditor [data]="editorData" ...></ckeditor>
```

### `tagName`

The tag name of the HTML element on which the rich text editor will be created.

The default tag is `<div>`.

```html
<ckeditor tagName="textarea" ...></ckeditor>
```

### `disabled`

Controls the editor's {@link module:core/editor/editor~Editor#isReadOnly read–only} state:

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public isDisabled = false;
	// ...
	toggleDisabled() {
		this.isDisabled = !this.isDisabled
	}
}
```

```html
<ckeditor [disabled]="isDisabled" ...></ckeditor>

<button (click)="toggleDisabled()">
	{{ isDisabled ? 'Enable editor' : 'Disable editor' }}
</button>
```

### `watchdog`

An instance of the {@link module:watchdog/contextwatchdog~ContextWatchdog `ContextWatchdog`} class that is responsible for providing the same context to the editor instances and restarting the whole structure in case of crashes.

```ts
import CKSource from 'path/to/custom/build';

const Context = CKSource.Context;
const Editor = CKSource.Editor;
const ContextWatchdog = CKSource.ContextWatchdog;

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public editor = Editor;
	public watchdog: any;
	public ready = false;

	ngOnInit() {
		const contextConfig = {};

		this.watchdog = new ContextWatchdog( Context );

		this.watchdog.create( contextConfig )
			.then( () => {
				this.ready = true;
			} );
	}
}
```

```html
<div *ngIf="ready">
	<ckeditor [watchdog]="watchdog" ...></ckeditor>
	<ckeditor [watchdog]="watchdog" ...></ckeditor>
	<ckeditor [watchdog]="watchdog" ...></ckeditor>
</div>
```

## Supported `@Output` properties

The following `@Output` properties are supported by the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular:

### `ready`

Fired when the editor is ready. It corresponds with the [`editor#ready`](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/api/module_core_editor_editor-Editor.html#event-ready) event.
It is fired with the editor instance.

Note that this method might be called multiple times. It is called whenever the editor crashes and is restarted, hence the editor property should not be kept internally (because it might change).

### `change`

Fired when the content of the editor has changed. It corresponds with the {@link module:engine/model/document~Document#event:change:data `editor.model.document#change:data`} event.
It is fired with an object containing the editor and the CKEditor 5 `change:data` event object.

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor" (change)="onChange($event)"></ckeditor>
```

```ts
import * as ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic';
import { ChangeEvent } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular/ckeditor.component';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = ClassicEditor;

	public onChange( { editor }: ChangeEvent ) {
		const data = editor.getData();

		console.log( data );
	}
	...
}
```

### `blur`

Fired when the editing view of the editor is blurred. It corresponds with the {@link module:engine/view/document~Document#event:blur `editor.editing.view.document#blur`} event.
It is fired with an object containing the editor and the CKEditor 5 `blur` event data.

### `focus`

Fired when the editing view of the editor is focused. It corresponds with the {@link module:engine/view/document~Document#event:focus `editor.editing.view.document#focus`} event.
It is fired with an object containing the editor and the CKEditor 5 `focus` event data.

### `error`

Fired when the editor crashes after its initialization. Once the editor is crashed, the internal watchdog mechanism restarts the editor and fires the [ready](#ready) event.

## Styling

The CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular can be styled using the component stylesheet or using a global stylesheet. See how to set the CKEditor 5 component's height using these two approaches.

### Setting the height via the component stylesheet

First, create a (S)CSS file in the parent component's directory and style the given editor's part preceded by the `:host` and `::ng-deep` pseudo selectors:

```css
/* src/app/app.component.css */

:host ::ng-deep .ck-editor__editable_inline {
	min-height: 500px;
}
```

Then in the parent component add the relative path to the above stylesheet:

```ts
/* src/app/app.component.ts */

@Component( {
	// ...
	styleUrls: [ './app.component.css' ]
} )
```

### Setting the height via a global stylesheet

To style the component using a global stylesheet, first, create it:

```css
/* src/styles.css */

.ck-editor__editable_inline {
	min-height: 500px;
}
```

Then, add it in the `angular.json` configuration file:

```json
"architect": {
	"build": {
		"options": {
			"styles": [
				{ "input": "src/styles.css" }
			]
		}
	}
}
```

### Setting the placeholder

To display {@link features/editor-placeholder the placeholder} in the main editable element, set the `placeholder` field in the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component configuration:

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public config = {
		placeholder: 'Type the content here!'
	}
}
```

## Accessing the editor instance

The CKEditor 5 rich text editor component provides all the functionality needed for most use cases. When access to the full CKEditor 5 API is needed you can get the editor instance with an additional step.

To do this, create a template reference variable `#editor` pointing to the `<ckeditor>` component:

```html
<ckeditor #editor [editor]="Editor" ...></ckeditor>
```

Then get the `<ckeditor>` component using a property decorated by `@ViewChild( 'editor' )` and access the editor instance when needed:

```ts
@Component()
export class MyComponent {
	@ViewChild( 'editor' ) editorComponent: CKEditorComponent;

	public getEditor() {
		// Warning: This may return "undefined" if the editor is hidden behind the `*ngIf` directive or
		// if the editor is not fully initialised yet.
		return this.editorComponent.editorInstance;
	}
}
```

<info-box>
	The editor creation is asynchronous so the `editorInstance` will not be available until the editor is created. If you want to make changes to an editor that has just been created, a better option would be getting the CKEditor 5 instance on the [`ready`](#ready) event.
</info-box>

## Localization

The CKEditor 5 rich text editor component can be localized in two steps.

### 1. Loading translation files

First, you need to add translation files to the bundle. This step can be achieved in two ways:

* By importing translations for given languages directly in your component file:

	```ts
	import '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic/build/translations/de';
	import * as ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic';
	...
	```

* By adding paths to translation files to the `"scripts"` array in `angular.json`:

	```json
	"architect": {
		"build": {
			"options": {
				"scripts": [ "node_modules/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic/build/translations/de.js" ]
			}
		}
	}
	```

### 2. Configuring the language

Then, you need to configure the editor to use the given language:

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = ClassicEditor;
	public config = {
		language: 'de'
	};
}
```

For advanced usage see the {@link features/ui-language Setting the UI language} guide.

## Contributing and reporting issues

The source code of the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular is available on GitHub in https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular.

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Fixed feature docs.

Co-Authored-By: Szymon Cofalik <s.cofalik@cksource.com>

docs/builds/guides/frameworks/angular.md, after:

---
menu-title: Angular component
category: builds-integration-frameworks
order: 20
---

# Rich text editor component for Angular

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40ckeditor%2Fckeditor5-angular.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular)

CKEditor 5 consists of {@link builds/guides/overview ready-to-use editor builds} and {@link framework/guides/overview CKEditor 5 Framework} upon which the builds are based.

Currently, the CKEditor 5 component for Angular supports integrating CKEditor 5 only via builds. Integrating {@link builds/guides/integration/advanced-setup#scenario-2-building-from-source CKEditor 5 built from source} is not possible yet due to the lack of ability to [adjust webpack configuration in `angular-cli`](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/issues/10618).

<info-box>
	While there is no support to integrate CKEditor 5 from source yet, you can still {@link builds/guides/development/custom-builds create a custom build of CKEditor 5} and include it in your Angular application.
</info-box>

## Quick start

In your existing Angular project, install the [CKEditor 5 WYSIWYG editor component for Angular](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular):

```bash
npm install --save @ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular
```

Install one of the {@link builds/guides/overview#available-builds official editor builds} or [create a custom one](#using-a-custom-ckeditor-5-build).

Assuming that you picked [`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic):

```bash
npm install --save @ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic
```

Now, add `CKEditorModule` to modules whose components will be using the `<ckeditor>` component in their templates.

```ts
import { CKEditorModule } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular';

@NgModule( {
	imports: [
		CKEditorModule,
		// ...
	],
	// ...
} )
```

Import the editor build in your Angular component and assign it to a `public` property to make it accessible from the template:

```ts
import * as ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = ClassicEditor;
	// ...
}
```

Finally, use the `<ckeditor>` tag in the template to run the rich text editor:

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor" data="<p>Hello, world!</p>"></ckeditor>
```

Rebuild your application and CKEditor 5 should greet you with "Hello, world!".

### Using the Document editor build

If you want to use the {@link framework/guides/document-editor document editor build}, you need to {@link module:editor-decoupled/decouplededitor~DecoupledEditor.create add the toolbar to the DOM manually}.

```ts
import * as DecoupledEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-decoupled-document';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = DecoupledEditor;

	public onReady( editor ) {
		editor.ui.getEditableElement().parentElement.insertBefore(
			editor.ui.view.toolbar.element,
			editor.ui.getEditableElement()
		);
	}
}
```

And then, in the template:

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor" data="<p>Hello, world!</p>" (ready)="onReady($event)"></ckeditor>
```

### Using a custom CKEditor 5 build

If you want to add more plugins to the existing build or customize something that cannot be controlled with the {@link builds/guides/integration/configuration editor configuration} you should create a custom build first, using the {@link builds/guides/development/custom-builds create a custom build guide}.

You should finish the above tutorial with the generated `ckeditor.js` file (and corresponding translation files). In the next step you should copy it to the `src` directory and import it to the component file.

```ts
import * as Editor from 'path/to/the/ckeditor';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = Editor;
	// ...
}
```

Note that to allow importing JavaScript files without providing their corresponding types you need to set `allowJs` to `true` in the `tsconfig.json` file. Also, make sure that you target `ES6` or higher, otherwise you are likely to end up with [a weird transpilation error](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular/issues/20) in the production build.

```json
"compilerOptions": {
	"allowJs": true,
	"target": "es2015"
	// other options
}
```

<info-box>
	If you cannot set the target higher than `es5`, try to set `"buildOptimizer": false` which will produce a bigger, but correct production build.
</info-box>

### Using the editor with collaboration plugins

The easiest way to integrate [collaboration plugins](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/collaboration/collaboration.html) in an Angular application is to create a custom build first and later import it from the Angular application &mdash; see [Using a custom CKEditor 5 build](#using-a-custom-ckeditor-5-build).

For such scenario we provide a few ready-to-use integrations featuring collaborative editing in Angular applications:

- [CKEditor 5 with real-time collaboration features](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-collaboration-samples/tree/master/real-time-collaboration-for-angular)

- [CKEditor 5 with the track changes feature](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-collaboration-samples/tree/master/track-changes-for-angular)

It is not mandatory to build applications on top of the above samples, however, they should help you get started.

### Strict mode project tips

If you have the strict mode set in your project, you need to specify types for CKEditor 5 packages. Otherwise you will get the `Could not find a declaration file for module` error.

To fix that you need to create a TypeScript declaration file and declare modules that miss their types:

```ts
// typings.d.ts

// You should specify the CKEditor 5 build you use here:
declare module '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic' {
	const ClassicEditorBuild: any;

	export = ClassicEditorBuild;
}
```

Unfortunately, CKEditor 5 builds do not ship with corresponding TypeScript typings yet. If you are interested in this topic you can add your vote or a comment [here](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues/504).

## Integration with `ngModel`

The component implements the [`ControlValueAccessor`](https://angular.io/api/forms/ControlValueAccessor) interface and works with the `ngModel`. Here is how to use it:

1. Create some model in your component to share with the editor:

	```ts
	@Component( {
		// ...
	} )
	export class MyComponent {
		public model = {
			editorData: '<p>Hello, world!</p>'
		};
		// ...
	}
	```

2. Use the model in the template to enable a two–way data binding:

	```html
	<ckeditor [(ngModel)]="model.editorData" [editor]="Editor"></ckeditor>
	```

## Supported `@Input` properties

The following `@Input` properties are supported by the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular:

### `editor` (required)

The {@link builds/guides/integration/basic-api `Editor`} which provides the static {@link module:core/editor/editor~Editor.create `create()`} method to create an instance of the editor:

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor"></ckeditor>
```

### `config`

The {@link module:core/editor/editorconfig~EditorConfig configuration} of the editor:

```html
<ckeditor [config]="{ toolbar: [ 'heading', '|', 'bold', 'italic' ] }" ...></ckeditor>
```

### `data`

The initial data of the editor. It can be a static value:

```html
<ckeditor data="<p>Hello, world!</p>" ...></ckeditor>
```

or a shared parent component's property

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public editorData = '<p>Hello, world!</p>';
	// ...
}
```

```html
<ckeditor [data]="editorData" ...></ckeditor>
```

### `tagName`

The tag name of the HTML element on which the rich text editor will be created.

The default tag is `<div>`.

```html
<ckeditor tagName="textarea" ...></ckeditor>
```

### `disabled`

Controls the editor's {@link module:core/editor/editor~Editor#isReadOnly read–only} state:

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public isDisabled = false;
	// ...
	toggleDisabled() {
		this.isDisabled = !this.isDisabled
	}
}
```

```html
<ckeditor [disabled]="isDisabled" ...></ckeditor>

<button (click)="toggleDisabled()">
	{{ isDisabled ? 'Enable editor' : 'Disable editor' }}
</button>
```

### `watchdog`

An instance of the {@link module:watchdog/contextwatchdog~ContextWatchdog `ContextWatchdog`} class that is responsible for providing the same context to multiple editor instances and restarting the whole structure in case of crashes.

```ts
import CKSource from 'path/to/custom/build';

const Context = CKSource.Context;
const Editor = CKSource.Editor;
const ContextWatchdog = CKSource.ContextWatchdog;

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public editor = Editor;
	public watchdog: any;
	public ready = false;

	ngOnInit() {
		const contextConfig = {};

		this.watchdog = new ContextWatchdog( Context );

		this.watchdog.create( contextConfig )
			.then( () => {
				this.ready = true;
			} );
	}
}
```

```html
<div *ngIf="ready">
	<ckeditor [watchdog]="watchdog" ...></ckeditor>
	<ckeditor [watchdog]="watchdog" ...></ckeditor>
	<ckeditor [watchdog]="watchdog" ...></ckeditor>
</div>
```

## Supported `@Output` properties

The following `@Output` properties are supported by the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular:

### `ready`

Fired when the editor is ready. It corresponds with the [`editor#ready`](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/api/module_core_editor_editor-Editor.html#event-ready) event.
It is fired with the editor instance.

Note that this method might be called multiple times. Apart from initialization, it is also called whenever the editor is restarted after a crash. Do not keep the reference to the editor instance internally, because it will change in case of restart. Instead, you should use `watchdog.editor` property.

### `change`

Fired when the content of the editor has changed. It corresponds with the {@link module:engine/model/document~Document#event:change:data `editor.model.document#change:data`} event.
It is fired with an object containing the editor and the CKEditor 5 `change:data` event object.

```html
<ckeditor [editor]="Editor" (change)="onChange($event)"></ckeditor>
```

```ts
import * as ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic';
import { ChangeEvent } from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular/ckeditor.component';

@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = ClassicEditor;

	public onChange( { editor }: ChangeEvent ) {
		const data = editor.getData();

		console.log( data );
	}
	...
}
```

### `blur`

Fired when the editing view of the editor is blurred. It corresponds with the {@link module:engine/view/document~Document#event:blur `editor.editing.view.document#blur`} event.
It is fired with an object containing the editor and the CKEditor 5 `blur` event data.

### `focus`

Fired when the editing view of the editor is focused. It corresponds with the {@link module:engine/view/document~Document#event:focus `editor.editing.view.document#focus`} event.
It is fired with an object containing the editor and the CKEditor 5 `focus` event data.

### `error`

Fired when the editor crashes (except of crashes during the editor initialization). Once the editor is crashed, the internal watchdog mechanism restarts the editor and fires the [ready](#ready) event.

## Styling

The CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular can be styled using the component stylesheet or using a global stylesheet. See how to set the CKEditor 5 component's height using these two approaches.

### Setting the height via the component stylesheet

First, create a (S)CSS file in the parent component's directory and style the given editor's part preceded by the `:host` and `::ng-deep` pseudo selectors:

```css
/* src/app/app.component.css */

:host ::ng-deep .ck-editor__editable_inline {
	min-height: 500px;
}
```

Then in the parent component add the relative path to the above stylesheet:

```ts
/* src/app/app.component.ts */

@Component( {
	// ...
	styleUrls: [ './app.component.css' ]
} )
```

### Setting the height via a global stylesheet

To style the component using a global stylesheet, first, create it:

```css
/* src/styles.css */

.ck-editor__editable_inline {
	min-height: 500px;
}
```

Then, add it in the `angular.json` configuration file:

```json
"architect": {
	"build": {
		"options": {
			"styles": [
				{ "input": "src/styles.css" }
			]
		}
	}
}
```

### Setting the placeholder

To display {@link features/editor-placeholder the placeholder} in the main editable element, set the `placeholder` field in the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component configuration:

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public config = {
		placeholder: 'Type the content here!'
	}
}
```

## Accessing the editor instance

The CKEditor 5 rich text editor component provides all the functionality needed for most use cases. When access to the full CKEditor 5 API is needed you can get the editor instance with an additional step.

To do this, create a template reference variable `#editor` pointing to the `<ckeditor>` component:

```html
<ckeditor #editor [editor]="Editor" ...></ckeditor>
```

Then get the `<ckeditor>` component using a property decorated by `@ViewChild( 'editor' )` and access the editor instance when needed:

```ts
@Component()
export class MyComponent {
	@ViewChild( 'editor' ) editorComponent: CKEditorComponent;

	public getEditor() {
		// Warning: This may return "undefined" if the editor is hidden behind the `*ngIf` directive or
		// if the editor is not fully initialised yet.
		return this.editorComponent.editorInstance;
	}
}
```

<info-box>
	The editor creation is asynchronous so the `editorInstance` will not be available until the editor is created. If you want to make changes to an editor that has just been created, a better option would be getting the CKEditor 5 instance on the [`ready`](#ready) event.
</info-box>

## Localization

The CKEditor 5 rich text editor component can be localized in two steps.

### 1. Loading translation files

First, you need to add translation files to the bundle. This step can be achieved in two ways:

* By importing translations for given languages directly in your component file:

	```ts
	import '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic/build/translations/de';
	import * as ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic';
	...
	```

* By adding paths to translation files to the `"scripts"` array in `angular.json`:

	```json
	"architect": {
		"build": {
			"options": {
				"scripts": [ "node_modules/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic/build/translations/de.js" ]
			}
		}
	}
	```

### 2. Configuring the language

Then, you need to configure the editor to use the given language:

```ts
@Component( {
	// ...
} )
export class MyComponent {
	public Editor = ClassicEditor;
	public config = {
		language: 'de'
	};
}
```

For advanced usage see the {@link features/ui-language Setting the UI language} guide.

## Contributing and reporting issues

The source code of the CKEditor 5 rich text editor component for Angular is available on GitHub in https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-angular.
