packages/ckeditor5-restricted-editing/docs/features/restricted-editing.md, before:

---
title: Restricted editing
menu-title: Restricted editing
category: features
---

{@snippet features/build-restricted-editing-source}

The ...

## Demo

The demo below works in two modes: "Standard Editing Mode" and "Restricted Editing Mode". Using the radio buttons below you can switch between modes.

{@snippet features/restricted-editing}

## Installation

To add this feature to your rich-text editor, install the [`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing) package:

```bash
npm install --save @ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing
```

### Running the Standard Editing Mode

And add it to your plugin list and the toolbar configuration:

```js
import StandardEditingMode from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing/src/standardeditingmode';

ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		plugins: [ StandardEditingMode, ... ],
		toolbar: [ 'restrictedEditingException', ... ]
	} )
	.then( ... )
	.catch( ... );
```

### Running the Restricted Editing Mode

And add it to your plugin list and the toolbar configuration:

```js
import RestrictedEditingMode from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing/src/restrictededitingmode';

ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		plugins: [ RestrictedEditingMode, ... ],
		toolbar: [ 'restrictedEditing', ... ]
	} )
	.then( ... )
	.catch( ... );
```


<info-box info>
	Read more about {@link builds/guides/integration/installing-plugins installing plugins}.
</info-box>

## Common API

<info-box>
	We recommend using the official {@link framework/guides/development-tools#ckeditor-5-inspector CKEditor 5 inspector} for development and debugging. It will give you tons of useful information about the state of the editor such as internal data structures, selection, commands, and many more.
</info-box>

## Contribute

The source code of the feature is available on GitHub in https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing.

Commit message:

Describe restricted editing feature modes.

packages/ckeditor5-restricted-editing/docs/features/restricted-editing.md, after:

---
title: Restricted editing
menu-title: Restricted editing
category: features
---

{@snippet features/build-restricted-editing-source}

The restricted editing feature allows to define editable areas in a documents that have restricted editing options. This feature defines
two modes for the editor:

1. Standard editing mode
2. Restricted editing mode

The standard editing mode is used as normal editor instance to create content. It also allows to mark regions of the document as non-restricted areas.

The restricted editing mode allows other set of users to fill those non-restricted areas with text. You can additionally define which of editor commands are allowed inside non-restricted areas. The restricted editing mode expects that allowed commands are a text-formatting commands, like `'bold'`, `'italic'` or `'fontColor'`.

## Demo

The demo below works in two modes: "Standard Editing Mode" and "Restricted Editing Mode". Using the radio buttons below you can switch between modes.

{@snippet features/restricted-editing}

## Installation

To add this feature to your rich-text editor, install the [`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing) package:

```bash
npm install --save @ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing
```

### Running the Standard Editing Mode

And add it to your plugin list and the toolbar configuration:

```js
import StandardEditingMode from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing/src/standardeditingmode';

ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		plugins: [ StandardEditingMode, ... ],
		toolbar: [ 'restrictedEditingException', ... ]
	} )
	.then( ... )
	.catch( ... );
```

### Running the Restricted Editing Mode

And add it to your plugin list and the toolbar configuration:

```js
import RestrictedEditingMode from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing/src/restrictededitingmode';

ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		plugins: [ RestrictedEditingMode, ... ],
		toolbar: [ 'restrictedEditing', ... ]
	} )
	.then( ... )
	.catch( ... );
```


<info-box info>
	Read more about {@link builds/guides/integration/installing-plugins installing plugins}.
</info-box>

## Common API

<info-box>
	We recommend using the official {@link framework/guides/development-tools#ckeditor-5-inspector CKEditor 5 inspector} for development and debugging. It will give you tons of useful information about the state of the editor such as internal data structures, selection, commands, and many more.
</info-box>

## Contribute

The source code of the feature is available on GitHub in https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5-restricted-editing.
