---
menu-title: Using package generator
meta-title: Using the package generator | CKEditor 5 Framework Documentation
meta-description: Learn how to easily create a new CKEditor 5 package using the package generator, including setup, configuration, and customization steps.
category: package-generator
order: 41
modified_at: 2026-01-21
---

# Using the package generator

The [`ckeditor5-package-generator`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ckeditor5-package-generator) is a tool for developers. It creates a working package with the development environment that allows writing new custom plugins for CKEditor&nbsp;5, aligned with the current installation methods and ESM-based builds.

## Quick start

To create a new package without installing the tool, simply execute the following command:

```bash
npx ckeditor5-package-generator <packageName> [--use-npm] [--use-pnpm] [--use-yarn] [--plugin-name <...>] [--lang <js|ts>] [--global-name <...>] [--verbose]
```

The `<packageName>` argument is required and must obey these rules:

* The provided name must match the schema: `@scope/ckeditor5-*`, where [@scope](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-scopes) is the owner of the package.
* The package name must start with the `ckeditor5-` prefix.
* Allowed characters are numbers (`0-9`), lowercase letters (`a-z`) and symbols: `-` `.` `_`.

As a result of executing the command, a new directory with a package in it will be created. The directory's name will be equal to the specified package name without the `@scope` part, and it will contain an example plugin and the development environment.

Available modifiers for the command are:

* `--use-npm` &ndash; use `npm` to install dependencies in the newly created package.
* `--use-pnpm` &ndash; use `pnpm` to install dependencies in the newly created package.
* `--use-yarn` &ndash; use `yarn` to install dependencies in the newly created package.
* `--global-name` &ndash; define a global name of the package to be used in the UMD build.
* `--plugin-name` &ndash; define the plugin name to be different from the package name.
* `--lang` &ndash; (values: `js` | `ts`) choose whether the created package should use JavaScript or TypeScript. If omitted, the script will ask the user to choose manually.
* `--verbose` &ndash; (alias: `-v`) print additional logs about the current executed task.

## Using the package

After successfully creating a directory with the new package, enter it by executing the following command:

```bash
# Assuming that your package was created with `ckeditor5-foo` as its name.
cd ckeditor5-foo
```

Then, run the test environment for the plugin by executing the following command:

```bash
npm run start
```

Now the plugin can be seen within the example editor.

Packages generated by the current tool use ESM and the new installation methods. In source files, make sure to:

* Always include file extensions in relative imports.
* Prefer imports from `ckeditor5` (or package roots).

Example:

```js
import { Plugin } from 'ckeditor5';
import MyPlugin from './myplugin.js';
```

To integrate the generated build with your editor, follow the {@link getting-started/setup/configuration Configuring CKEditor 5 features} guide.

You can check out what is available inside your package depending on the language you used:
* {@link framework/development-tools/package-generator/javascript-package JavaScript}
* {@link framework/development-tools/package-generator/typescript-package TypeScript}

## Upgrading older packages

If you generated a package with an older version of the tool, follow the {@link updating/nim-migration/custom-plugins Migrating custom plugins} guide to align the build and import rules with the current package generator output.
