packages/ckeditor5-link/tests/manual/link.md, before:

## Link

### Create new link from text

1. Select fragment of regular text.
2. Click toolbar link button.
3. Check if balloon panel attached to the selection appeared.
4. Fill in `Link URL` input in the panel.
5. Click `Save` button.
6. Check if selected text is converted into a link.

### Insert new link

1. Set collapsed selection inside a regular text.
2. Click toolbar link button.
3. Check if balloon panel attached to the selection appeared.
4. Fill in `Link URL` input in the panel.
5. Click `Save` button.
6. Check if new link with anchor text the same as url value has been inserted and selected.

### Edit link

1. Click a link element.
2. Check if balloon panel attached to the link element appeared.
3. Change `Link URL` input value.
4. Click `Save` button.
5. Check if link href value has changed.

### Keyboard support

1. Check if above use cases works for keyboard support. For opening Link panel press `Ctrl+K`, for submitting form press `Enter`.

### Unlink link fragment

1. Select link fragment.
2. Click the toolbar link button.
3. Click the "Unlink" button.
4. Check if selected text has been converted into a regular text.

### Unlink whole link

1. Click a link element.
2. Click toolbar unlink button.
3. Check if link has been converted into a regular text.

Commit message:

The Link feature will insert a selection after modified/added text node instead of selecting them.

packages/ckeditor5-link/tests/manual/link.md, after:

## Link

### Create new link from text

1. Select fragment of regular text.
2. Click toolbar link button.
3. Check if balloon panel attached to the selection appeared.
4. Fill in `Link URL` input in the panel.
5. Click `Save` button.
6. Check if the selection is after the text that was converted into a link.
7. Typing should not modify the link node.

### Insert new link

1. Set collapsed selection inside a regular text.
2. Click toolbar link button.
3. Check if balloon panel attached to the selection appeared.
4. Fill in `Link URL` input in the panel.
5. Click `Save` button.
6. Check if new link with anchor text the same as url value has been inserted.
7. Check if the selection is after the text node. Typing should not modify the node.

### Edit link

1. Click a link element.
2. Check if balloon panel attached to the link element appeared.
3. Change `Link URL` input value.
4. Click `Save` button.
5. Check if link href value has changed.
6. Check if the selection is after the updated text node. Typing should not modify the node.

### Keyboard support

1. Check if above use cases works for keyboard support. For opening Link panel press `Ctrl+K`, for submitting form press `Enter`.

### Unlink link fragment

1. Select link fragment.
2. Click the toolbar link button.
3. Click the "Unlink" button.
4. Check if selected text has been converted into a regular text.

### Unlink whole link

1. Click a link element.
2. Click toolbar unlink button.
3. Check if link has been converted into a regular text.
